---
title: Getting started
description: ''
---

A model defines an entity schema that will be handled by Pinia ORM. You can visualize a model  as a table definition in a database. You can use models wherever your application needs to manage a collection of entities, whether they actually correspond to a database or not. Models encapsulate most of the functionality that you'll need to work with your data.

## Defining A Model

You can create a model by defining a new class that extends the Pinia ORM base `Model`. All models require two static properties, an `entity` and `fields` property.

The following example sets up a new model that can be used to manage users:

```js
import { Model } from 'pinia-orm'

class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.attr(null),
      name: this.attr('John Doe')
    }
  }
}
```

### Entity

`entity` is a property that identifies a model, similar to the name of a database table. Each model's `entity` name must be unique!

All models will create a  Pinia module by their entity property and are found in `state.entities`. In our example above, we will have created `state.entities.users`. The default namespace `entities` can be configured during installation.

### Fields

`fields` is a required property method that returns an object of field attributes to the model's schema. It maps data to their respective fields. It should return an object of key-value pairs consisting of the field name , and attribute definitions.

## Field Attributes

Pinia ORM supports the most common Javascript datatypes including primitives, object literals, and arrays. These datatypes are defined using various field attributes. The most common type of attribute you'll come across is the generic attribute type.

Attributes take a single argument – the fields **default value**. This default value is used in the event the field is missing when inserting data.

:::tip Attribute Decorators
Typescript users can define attributes using decorators. To learn more about these, please take a look at the [Decorators](decorators) section.
:::

### Generic Type

Generic attributes can be defined using `this.attr(...)`. This type of attribute, unlike other attributes, will take any datatype as it's default value, including `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Object` and `Array`.

The following example defines `id` and `name` fields on a user model using the generic attribute type:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.attr(null),
      name: this.attr('John Doe')
    }
  }
}
```

### `string` Type

::alert{type="warning"}
If your value is not of the given type `string` you will get a console warning
::

String attributes can be defined using `this.string(...)`. The default value can be any string, including an empty string.

The following example defines the `name` field on a user model using the string attribute:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      ...
      name: this.string('')
    }
  }
}
```

This attribute will ensure a given value is cast as a string. For example, if  `name` receives a value of `false` or `null`, it will become `'false'` or `'null'`.

This attribute has `null` as a default value. However, if you want to get warning if a value should not be nullable you can set `notNullable()`.

```js
{
  ...
  name: this.string(null).notNullable()
}
```

### `number` Type

::alert{type="warning"}
If your value is not of the given type `number` you will get a console warning
::

Number attributes can be defined using `this.number(...)`. The default value can be any integer.

The following example defines the `id` field on a user model using the number attribute:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.number(0)
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

This attribute will ensure a given value is cast as a number. For example, if `id` receives a value of `false`, it will become `0`, `null` will become `0`, `'123'` will become `123`, and so on.

This attribute has `null` as a default value. However, if you want to get warning if a value should not be nullable you can set `notNullable()`.

```js
{
  ...
  name: this.number(null).notNullable()
}
```

### `boolean` Type

::alert{type="warning"}
If your value is not of the given type `boolean` you will get a console warning
::

Boolean attributes can be defined using `this.boolean(...)`. The default value can be either `true` or `false`.

The following example defines the `active` field on a user model using the boolean attribute:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      ...
      active: this.boolean(false)
    }
  }
}
```

This attribute will ensure a given value is cast as a boolean. Any truthy or falsy value will be cast accordingly. For example, if `active` receives a value of `0` or `null`, it will become `false`. Likewise, if it receives a value of `1` or `'yes'` (non-empty string) it will become `true`.

This attribute has `null` as a default value. However, if you want to get warning if a value should not be nullable you can set `notNullable()`.

```js
{
  ...
  active: this.boolean(null).notNullable()
}
```

## Special Attributes

### `uid` Type

UID attribute is the special attribute that works similarly to "Autoincrement" column type in RDB. When you try to save a record without the value set to the UID field, it will generate a unique ID automatically.

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.uid(),
      name: this.string('')
    }
  }
}
```

This attribute will generate a unique string value using simple version of [nanoid/non-secure](https://github.com/ai/nanoid#non-secure) package.

Since version 'v1.0.0-rc-6' you can also use uuid libraries. By your own or the implemented ones. There are ready to use decorators and casts.

#### nanoid

For more details look at [nanoid](https://github.com/ai/nanoid). Standard methods

```js
import { UidCast } from 'pinia-orm/dist/nanoid'
// import { UidCast } from 'pinia-orm/dist/nanoid/non-secure'
// import { UidCast } from 'pinia-orm/dist/nanoid/async'

class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.attr(),
      name: this.string('')
    }
  }

  static casts () {
    return {
      id: UidCast
    }
  }
}
```

with decorator:

```ts
import { Uid } from 'pinia-orm/dist/nanoid'
// import { Uid } from 'pinia-orm/dist/nanoid/non-secure'
// import { Uid } from 'pinia-orm/dist/nanoid/async'

class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'
  
  @Uid declare id: string
}
```

#### uuid

For more details look at [uuid](https://github.com/uuidjs/uuid). Standard methods

```js
import { UidCast } from 'pinia-orm/dist/uuid/v1'
// import { UidCast } from 'pinia-orm/dist/uuid/v4'

class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.attr(),
      name: this.string('')
    }
  }

  static casts () {
    return {
      id: UidCast
    }
  }
}
```

with decorator:

```ts
import { Uid } from 'pinia-orm/uuid/v1'
// import { Uid } from 'pinia-orm/uuid/v4'

class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'
  
  @Uid declare id: string
}
```

```js
const user = useRepo(User).make()

user.id // <- '2c5ea4c0-4067-11e9-8bad-9b1deb4d3b7d'
```

## Defining Relations

You can define a relationship between different models using relation attributes such as `this.hasMany`, `this.belongsTo`, etc. To learn more about these, please take a look at [Relationships](../relationships/getting-started) page.

## Primary Key

All models **must** have a primary key field. The primary key serves as an index key that Pinia ORM will use to persist entities to the store by it's value.

By default, Pinia ORM will look for a primary key field called `id`.

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.attr(null)
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

### Custom Primary Key

The primary key can be mapped to any field that will have a unique value by defining the static `primaryKey` property on a model.

The following example configures a user model to identify the field `myId` as the primary key:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static primaryKey = 'myId'

  static fields () {
    return {
      myId: this.attr(null)
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

### Missing Primary Key

If a model is missing a primary key field definition, Pinia ORM will generate a primary key field automatically during database registration. The generated field will be configured using the `uid` attribute type and named `id` unless the static `primaryKey` property is defined on a model.

The following example sets up a user model without an `id` primary key field:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      name: this.attr('')
    }
  }
}
```

Pinia ORM will recognize the model is missing an `id` field and will generate one in it's absence. The model will now be configured as follows:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static fields () {
    return {
      id: this.uid(), // The auto-generated primary key field.
      name: this.attr('')
    }
  }
}
```

The same principle applies to a model with a custom primary key definition. Pinia ORM will generate a primary key field using the name defined as the static `primaryKey` property.

The following example sets up a user model configured with a `primaryKey` property but without a corresponding primary key field:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static primaryKey = 'myId'

  static fields () {
    return {
      name: this.attr('')
    }
  }
}
```

Pinia ORM will recognize a custom `primaryKey` has been defined but is unable to locate the corresponding field definition, and will generate one in it's absence. The model will now be configured as follows:

```js
class User extends Model {
  static entity = 'users'

  static primaryKey = 'myId'

  static fields () {
    return {
      myId: this.uid(), // The auto-generated custom primary key field.
      name: this.attr('')
    }
  }
}
```
