---
sidebarDepth: 2
---

# Request

The Request object is returned when calling the `api()` method on a repository. This object is the foundation for Pinia ORM Axios and enables you to call many of the supported axios methods to perform an API request. Any [Custom Actions](../guide/custom-actions) will also be defined on the Request object.

```js
const request = useAxiosRepo(User).api()
```

You can call request methods directly through chaining.

```js
const response = useAxiosRepo(User).api().get()
```

## Constructor

- `constructor(model: typeof Model)`

  By default, calling the `api()` method on a model will attach the model class to the Request object.

  You may also create a Request instance by passing a model as the constructors only param.

  ```js
  import { Request } from '@pinia-orm/axios'

  const request = new Request(useAxiosRepo(User))
  ```

## Instance Properties

### `model`

- **Type**: `typeof Model`

  The model class that is attached to the Request instance.

### `axios`

- **Type**: `AxiosInstance`

  The axios instance that will be used to perform the request.

## Instance Methods

### `get`

- `get(url: string, config: Config = {}): Promise<Response>`

  Performs a `GET` request. It takes the same arguments as the axios `get` method.

### `post`

- `post(url: string, data: any = {}, config: Config = {}): Promise<Response>`

  Performs a `POST` request. It takes the same arguments as the axios `post` method.

### `put`

- `put(url: string, data: any = {}, config: Config = {}): Promise<Response>`

  Performs a `PUT` request. It takes the same arguments as the axios `put` method.

### `patch`

- `patch(url: string, data: any = {}, config: Config = {}): Promise<Response>`

  Performs a `PATCH` request. It takes the same arguments as the axios `patch` method.

### `delete`

- `delete(url: string, config: Config = {}): Promise<Response>`

  Performs a `DELETE` request. It takes the same arguments as the axios `delete` method.

### `request`

- `request(config: Config): Promise<Response>`

  Performs a request with the given config options. Requests will default to `GET` if the `method` option is not specified.

  All request aliases call this method by merging the relevant configs. You may use this method if you are more familiar with using the axios API in favour of alias methods.
